---
layout: post
title: 2025 book roundup
description: Light thoughts on the books I read in 2025.
---

## Dracula - Bram Stoker

It turns out what I thought was the story of Dracula was only really the first sliver of the book. A great story with compelling, heart-on-sleeve characters. Enjoyed reading it out loud and doing the voices.

## Lord Foul’s Bane - Stephen Donaldson

Stephen Donaldson manages to create a sympathetic protagonist out of a man who is not very nice most of the time. Very Lord of the Rings (complimentary). I'm looking forward to the rest of the series.

## Ship of Magic - Robin Hobb

The writing feels a little less crisp than I remember from the Farseer trilogy, but I don't know if that's just whiplash from how poetic Stephen Donaldson is. I love Kennit so far, or rather the peeks we get into his inner monologue that show the gulf between his carefully manicured presentation and what a baby he is inside.

## Cinema Speculation - Quentin Tarantino

An enjoyable trip through a particular era of US cinema, as told by someone who grew up glued to the screen. Tarantino took a (verbal) swing at Paul Dano not long after I finished reading this, so take any opinions with a heap of salt. I love Paul Dano.

## Municipal Gothic - Ray Newman

Ghost stories in a traditional vein, taken out of a Victorian setting and told in council estates and neglected parts of the city. A fairly breezy read at 13 short stories. Enjoyed them a lot. Keen to read more of his work.

## Wintering - Katherine May

Rest and retreat, in a year where I needed a lot of rest and retreat.

## The Haunting of Hill House - Shirley Jackson

Incredible opening and doesn't get much worse from there.

## An Idler's Manual - Tom Hodgkinson

A light and entertaining read, as you might expect from the editor of the nation's premier magazine for loafers.

## The Rubáiyát of Omar Khayyám

A great work of poetry as translated by Edward Fitzgerald. Turned onto this by a column in *Idler*.

## Careless People - Sarah Wynn-Williams

Just put it all in the bin, frankly. Facebook, I mean, not this book. The book can go on a shelf, probably. I greatly enjoy the Tech-dumpster-fire genre, and *Careless People* does not disappoint.

## Arks (Volume 1)

Good art, very gruesome, but I don’t feel incredibly compelled to get the next one. It mainly just made me want to replay Horizon: Zero Dawn.

## Useful, Not True - Derek Sivers

I previously read his book *How To Live*, and I enjoy Derek Sivers' brief, thought-provoking books. Both books are less about giving you answers and more about helping you ask good questions. <https://sive.rs/u>

## The Mad Ship - Robin Hobb

Packed with the character development and engaging character arcs that I've come to love from Robin Hobb.

## The Anarchy - William Dalrymple

I knew almost nothing about the history of India going into this, and learned so much.

## My Best Friend's Exorcism - Grady Hendrix

Pulpy, trashy, a lot of fun.

## The Wager - David Grann

A real page turner. It's got boats, it's got mutinies, it's got drama, it's got everything.

## Things Become Other Things (RH ed.) - Craig Mod

A masterful expansion on the fine-art edition. Struggled with the B&W photos when reading in a dimly lit room.

## The King in Yellow - Robert W. Chambers

Started off eldritch horror, finished a bit Jeeves & Wooster.

## Mr Penumbra's 24 Hour Book Store - Robin Sloan

I spent most of the time kind of annoyed by the dorky protagonist, but it was a fun mystery adventure. One of the key takeaways is that being a Ruby programmer is an attractive trait, so... I'll take it.

## Walking the Great North Line - Robert Twigger

I love a walking memoir, and this is the second Robert Twigger book I've read since *Angry White Pyjamas.

## Spook Country - William Gibson

A lot of focus on brands, colours, design. Gibson apparently said his main interest is fashion, and he the novels are primarily a vessel for that.

## Side Wounds - Lena Oleanderson

A book of poetry, mostly about their friend's suicide at 17 and their relationship with faith.

## The Notebook: A History of Thinking on Paper - Roland Allen

I really enjoyed this read. Very interesting, very inspiring.

## Notes to John - Joan Didion

A summary of Joan’s meetings with her therapist, mainly regarding Quintana’s alcoholism, written as a series of letters to her husband John. Knowing how things would unfold (*The Year of Magical Thinking*, *Blue Nights*) made this a tough read.

## Farenheit-182 - Mark Hoppus

I was (am) a big Blink fan, so it was cool getting the behind-the-scenes.
