---
layout: post
title: "January 2021"
description: "Notes from the month of January, 2021."
category: monthnotes
tags: [personal, reading list]
---

# Questions and Answers

## What are default and bundled gems in Ruby?
> With Ruby 3.0 the standard library is going to become default gems.

A Ruby installation has three parts. The standard library, default gems, and bundled gems.

The standard library is the core language and utilities. Default gems are gems that cannot be removed, but need not be required. Bundled gems are gems that come along with a Ruby installation, but must be explicitly required as a dependency and can be removed.

There is an ongoing effort to extract parts of the Ruby standard library to default gems. By keeping the standard library itself lean, you free its component parts from being unnecessarily tied to a larger development and release cycle, as well as making bits easier to remove or deprecate as time goes on.

## When is a class not pulling its weight?

> I use Inline Class if a class is no longer pulling its weight and shouldn’t be around any more. Often this is the result of refactoring that moves other responsibilities out of the class so there are little left.

I recently finished reading [Refactoring: Ruby Edition](https://martinfowler.com/books/refactoringRubyEd.html), and while there was a lot of talk about extracting logic into single purpose classes, there was also mention of removing classes that weren't deemed to be "pulling their weight."

This left me with a question. How little is too little? I'm assuming that when the author says there is little left in the class, they don't mean there's _nothing_ left, so what sort of classes might exist that don't deserve the mental space they occupy?

Say you've got class `B` that you're considering merging into class `A`. Some good reasons to make this merge might be:

* `B` only operates on instances of `A` or its fields.
* `B` is only referenced by `A`.
* You struggle to differentiate between the domain concepts modeled by `A` and `B`.

In conclusion, I think it's less a question of whether a class has enough responsibility, and more a question of whether a class has enough responsibility _that rightfully belongs to it_.

# Things I Read

* Continuing to read [A Promised Land](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/55361205-a-promised-land) by Barack Obama.
* [Ruby: The Not So Good Parts](https://www.chrismytton.com/ruby-the-not-so-good-parts/) - A surprisingly short list for such an old language. It's hard to disagree with any of the points, especially since I still struggle to recall the difference between a proc and a lambda without checking.
